Washington says it's too early to tell
if Israel will heed us advice on
protecting civilians in Gaza here's what
the state department spokesman said just
a short while
ago unfortunately we do expect to see
civilian casualties as a result of this
campaign um that is sadly true in all
wars it is especially going to be true
in a war in a crowded Urban environment
where the opponent Hamas is using
civilians as human Shields and hiding
themselves hiding their Fighters hiding
their infrastructure behind civilians so
what we have made clear to Israel is
that we expect them to comply with
International humanitarian law and do
them do everything they can to minimize
civilian harm so we don't see a repeat
in the south of what we saw in the north
uh and and with respect to that we're at
the very early stage of the operation I
think it's too too soon to draw a
definitive
conclusion well a White House delegation
headed by vice president KLA Harris is
National Security adviser Phil Gordon
has arrived in Tel Aviv for more on this
and what we've just heard from the state
department let's speak to to kimbery H
we'll start with the state department
first kimbery if if you will uh
commenting on this Israeli expansion in
the south of Gaza what more did you
hear well what we're hearing there is
really the state department putting the
blame for the high number of Palestinian
civilian casualties not on the Israeli
military that is responsible for the
campaign is responsible for
dropping the large number of Munitions
that have resulted in more than 15,000
deaths uh but instead what we're hearing
is the state department placing the
blame on Hamas and how they're doing
that is by saying that Hamas is
embedding itself inside of churches
mosques schools and hospitals and as a
result that is why there are these high
number of Civilian casualties because as
uh we see the Israeli military going
after these operatives uh civilians are
caught as part of collateral damage but
of course the international condemnation
for the disproportionate number of
Civilian casualties would certainly beg
to differ with that explanation and so
uh the United States is certainly having
to find alternative explanations and
this is certainly one of them it does
have a little bit of a challenge from
the vice president's own words as she
was meeting very recently over the
weekend with Arab leaders and following
that meeting did point out that it is
time for the Israeli military to follow
humanitarian law and that the uh numbers
of Civilian casualties and her her words
are simply devastating right and and
speaking of which the the White House
delegation in Tel Aviv right now what
more do we know about what they're
hoping to achieve what are the aims of
that well the vice president kamla
Harris is now back in the United States
but her delegation that traveled with
her to those meetings with Arab leaders
uh is still ongoing they are now in
Israel and what we know is that her
National Security adviser Phil Gordon is
meeting with his Israeli counterparts
the reason for this is that the United
States is already starting to explore
with the Israelis uh what post
governance in Gaza looks like now uh
they're having those conversations
Israel says that it is not willing to
have Hamas running it uh as it has been
previously or the Palestinian Authority
even if it is a revitalized Palestinian
Authority uh and so the United States is
also exploring the option of perhaps
some sort of international body but uh
so far many of these have been uh ideas
that have not been welcomed by the
Israelis still the United States is
presenting this discussion and they're
also doing it with five key principles
and that is no Force displacement no
reoccupation no blockade no reduction in
territory and also that Gaza should no
longer in the eyes of the United States
and Israel be used for any staging
ground for any future types of attacks
against Israel kimbery thanks for that
kimy Hut there at the White House